and who can sew how many cans you
producer David a day up to 5 million
cameras 5 million cards 1.1 billion
accountants a year
I can't even contemplate what that looks
like this is cans everywhere the speed
of it though you can't even see them if
you look at it you mean you can see all
the lines together that's millions of
cans a day that's mind-boggling is there
[Music]
they fill a million and a half cans with
beans here every day Pines don't add any
artificial preservatives to keep their
beans fresh so how on earth do they keep
them safe inside the canned for more
than a year this assignment is done to
demand some canny espionage will miss
microbiology Julie booth
spill the beans some of these products
have 16 months 18 months shelf life and
in order to achieve that shelf life we
need to make sure that there is nothing
which could kills the food to spoil so
you superheat it to kill impressive okay
we're actually getting to temperatures
in excess of 120 degrees inside the car
to make the cans safe they put them
inside this machine a super steam
sterilizer in here the beans are cooked
inside their silk and we have free
cup child followed by two cooling shows
the high temperature kills bacteria
stone-dead the food stay safe until the
can is open but Julie doesn't take
safety on trust she has to be absolutely
certain every can
coming up the machine is safe so they
send spies into the super steam
sterilizer to make absolutely sure we
have these small units which are
temperature loggers so Jim I'll put this
logger inside the can and we'll be able
to then put it through the sterilizers
in the factory and that way we can prove
what temperature are actually getting
inside the can for normal production so
that little gadget there will take the
temperature that the thermometer and
then store that information inside then
you can then get all that information
out constantly at the time and the
temperature
the spy can is filled with beans and
sauce just like all the others but the
lid is fitted with a highly sensitive
temperature probe over 120 degrees and
then it's cool it's cool
yeah gradually cool so that we don't
cause any can't damage right after you
there we go
inside this huge cooking shell is my can
with the sensor inside it what that's
doing is recording the temperature and
time okay so Jim is going to read the
logger for us
okay and that will enable us to know the
temperature that we got inside that can
during the cooking process
if the spike Anne has endured 120
degrees for three minutes then all the
bacteria and all the cans has been
destroyed and as you can see we're
getting way in excess of 120 degrees
yeah so this proves that our beans are a
safe pack that guarantees you bomb no
nasties
and now we can all sleep soundly at
night knowing every can in the cupboard
is safe
you